I think casual sex is almost always more
risky for women than it's worth it why
because one the things you're saying you
know that they're unpopular but you're
saying them anyway yeah why parents are
really worried about their daughters and
also their sons and really really want
them to know this stuff Louise Perry
journalist author and podcast host she
is renowned for her views on topics such
as sexual politics and the impact of
modern feminist movements we have a
culture that prioritizes male
preferences for casual assets and you're
saying it harms both men and women I
think in different ways so for example a
lot of young women kind of go along with
it even if they don't want that that
that causes a lot of misery because
women in particular tend to get
emotionally bonded from sex more than
men do do we know that yeah but there
are also other problems that we should
talk about so would it be better for men
if we waited longer before we had sex
waiting until engagement is a better
call the problem is when you don't have
the expectation that people wait there's
really nothing stopping those very
attractive High status men from playing
the field and not being forced to commit
and then low status men just have none
when people are left to their own
devices on dating apps and you monitor
it carefully this is basically what you
see but in a monogamous system you have
to commit to one woman and remove
yourself from the dating po so what is
the uncomfortable advice that both men
and women need to hear on this subject
for their best interest this is a
profound problem and it's partly because
I think we don't tell the truth about it
which is and governments know this which
is why they're starting to freak out
we've just hit 6 million subscribers on
the dire of a CO um so me and my team
would like to do something we've never
done before as little thank you and
we're calling it The dire of a CO
subscriber raffle and here is how it
works every episode this month we're
going to pick three current subscribers
at random and we'll send one of you a
1,000 voucher one of you tickets to come
and watch the D SE behind the scenes
live with our team and one of you will
have a 10-minute phone call with me to
discuss whatever you want to talk about
if you're a subscriber you're in the
raffle thank you from the bot of my
heart for allowing me to do something
that me and my team love doing so much
it is the greatest honor of my lifetime
and I hope it I hope it continues uh off
into the Future Let's get to the
[Music]
episode
Louise in this season of your
life what is your objective and why is
that your
objective well
as is kind of obvious I'm in the having
baby season of my life it's a really
interesting experience being living the
the the exact um sort of social
phenomena that I saw often write and
talk about which is basically the role
of
women in participating in public life
and the the inherent ways in which the
fact that women be children comes into
conflict with that which is very much
the you know the subject to my first
book this this question of like if you
can artificially suspend that if you can
if the pill arrives in 1960s and
suddenly women can go from being
constantly I don't want to say at risk
of pregnancy because that's not about
the right word like pregnancy is is a
good thing but constantly having to
negotiate the possibility of pregnancy
and then
suddenly a new technology comes along
first time in the history of the world
which pretty much cuts that
out what does that do to
women's public role the social
experience of being a woman um and my
argument is it's had so much more of a
profound effect than we tend to
acknowledge um because the fact that
it's women who bear children is so so so
socially
important in terms of our ability to
work our economic uh vulner
abilities um our ability to participate
in
politics all of this and the pill is
just this like enormous Game
Changer where Suddenly It's a choice and
I'm in the season of my life where I
where I've chosen it for anybody that is
um not watching on video Louise is six
months pregnant so that's the reference
with my second baby what is it that you
think
Society at large disagrees with you on
as it relates to these
issues I think that most
people well most people I think that the
kind of dominant narrative is that this
is has been an unambiguously good thing
and there's been no tradeoffs and I
think there is ambiguity and that there
have been tradeoffs that's basically the
disagreement and I think they're pretty
much I think they're pretty much
trade-offs with everything not least a
massively massively consequential new
technology like the
pill do you think the net impact of the
pill is positive or negative
I suppose it depends on which area of
your life you're talking about so I
think that one of the things at the pill
another reliable
contraception one of the ways in which
it's magical and really good is that it
allows people to
be it allows people to plan their
families it allows women to have spaces
between births which are healthy it's
really like in a lot of cases it's
really bad for you to be constantly
pregnant right it has a really really
serious effect on the body so on that
front fantastic and on a personal level
fantastic um the the tradeoffs are
normally in other areas of life like
well like we have massively falling
birth rates and there are political and
economic problems arising from that um
that's not just Downstream with a pill
but the pill is a really big part of
that story sexual culture has changed so
much um and I think that causes a lot of
misery particularly
for uh younger women women who are
younger than me sexual culturing uh has
changed in what Regard in that I think
that it is shifted towards uh and you be
careful here because I don't want to I
don't what I don't want to say is that
um the sexual revolution has been
fabulous for men in general I think that
a lot of men have not done well by it
but I think in general that the really
big winners from the sexual Revolution
have been a small subset of men so what
I write about in the book is the Hugh
heers of the world right Hugh Hefner who
found a Playboy magazine massive sexual
appetites and are attractive and can
basically have as many women as they
want don't have to get married to them
because Christianity has faded away um
don't have to worry about unwanted
pregnancies because of a pill you know
for they've had a ball and I think that
what we've seen in the culture is more
of
a sort of the center of gravity has
moved more toward their preferences and
some women are okay with that you know
some women genuinely enjoy the sort of
being the Playgirl right um but most
don't I think that there is some
important average average differences
between men and women psychologically
not least I mean that's not just what I
think like the data is I think
unimpeachable on this and not least when
it comes to
sexuality and a culture that prioritizes
male preferences when it comes to
sexuality
is going to be more costly to
women so who are you Lise and what's
some what experiences in your life and
what sort of upbringing has informed the
way that you see the world I started off
as a very kind of basically holding the
mainstream Progressive view being very
very kind of conventional in my thinking
I went to a very a very very Progressive
University um School of Oriental and
African studies in London and when I
left University I
um I worked for Charities including
working at a Rape Crisis
Center which was
um which had a significant effect on me
in the sense
that I was very familiar with sort of
standard feminist Theory standard
feminist Theory says men and women are
basically the same there aren't any real
important differences between us either
physical or psychological apart from you
know the baby spit whatever who cares um
and that sexual violence rape is not
about sexual desire it's about power
it's it's you know it's a power play
thing it's all could sort of understood
in political terms and then I actually
went to work with
victims and I noticed things I sort of
couldn't help but notice things
about what they'd been
through that made me think I don't think
that's true like you know that the modal
victim uh of sexual violence is
15 it's really young right really
young and also the age of um um
perpetrators is also skewed quite young
like teens and 20s is the most common
age
group and one of the things I noticed or
couldn't couldn't help but notice is it
perpetrators um basically the peak age
of perpetration for men young men is the
same as testosterone
Peak oh really yeah it's the same curve
it's also the same curve you see in
other kinds of violent crime there's
basically just um testosterone Rises a
lot in your mid- teens and then drops in
your 30s and it's basically during that
period that um I mean there's there's a
massive upside to this as well like you
know testosterone is also the drug of um
the hormone of uh being adventurous and
risk-taking and there's there's a lot of
upsides to having that sort of youthful
male energy the downside is um things
like rape and ditto the peak age of
female
victimization is also Peak
fertility so what's your conclusion from
that that it's not about power it's
about
biology or it's not just you know if you
look at say sexual harassment in the
workplace it's rare for like Junior men
to sexually harass senior women right
yeah yeah so there clearly is an element
of people are sort of um making
decisions based on Social Power
structures and so on but I know when it
comes down to it um this is a biological
phenomenon it's also not unique to
humans other animals other primates are
also sexually aggressive you know
basically for the same reasons so sort
of what we're dealing with is like
a is an eternal problem like how do we
how do we Channel male aggression in the
right
directions how do we protect young women
during these um vulnerable years this is
a profound problem and it's a a problem
that every society faces and I don't
think that we deal with it as well as we
could partly because I think we don't
tell the truth about it and not least
feminists don't tell the truth about it
because if you say oh there are no
physical differen between men and women
male and female sexuality is basically
the Fame women having as much Freedom
sexual Freedom as possible is obviously
the best possible thing you know I think
what you end up doing by telling these
untruths frankly I mean I people people
say these things with the best will in
the world um but what you end up doing
is actually putting young women at risk
young women who don't who don't know the
truth because how could they you know
15y old girls and I say this is someone
who used to be a 15-y old girl and has
also spoken to lots of 15-y old girls
who've really learned this the hard
way they don't know they don't know
these realities about you know the fact
that like men have double the upper body
strength that women do on average which
means they can punch twice as hard as
women can on average and things like
that I think that we I think we should
be more honest with
these young women then that was my
motivation for writing the book and also
why I ended up partly as a consequence
of working R crisis ended up moving
politically and becoming more skep C of
a lot of sort of um dominant political
ideas so if we um if we think the
understanding of the physical and um
psychological differences between men
and women are Central to understanding
how we should respond and behave and the
advice that we should give to men and
women um we should probably talk about
what those differences are you mentioned
physical differences between men and
women so strength being one of them y um
are there any other physical different
differ that are really pertinent to this
subject so strength sports are the
biggest gap between men and women yeah
um sort of sprinting cardio like short
distance there's also a big gap and it's
funny when you look at the numbers of
like the fastest man in the world the
fastest women in the world they're not
that different um but if women did not
have their own reserved sporting
categories there would be no women in
Elite
Sport because like the fastest woman in
the world would be like the thousandth
fastest man in the world or something
like that because once you're getting to
into Elite Sports levels that's when
these differences become
very obvious and there's this expression
that's I think it's the golden ratio in
endurance sport where women are always
it's like 85% or something of what men
are the very most accomplished Elite
female athlete and very most
accomplished Elite male athlete there's
always this Gap so anyway so cardio
differences are not massive the strength
differences are pretty big um this
physical difference what does this then
mean for the subjects we were talking
about as it relates to sort of sexuality
and Society more generally so it means
for instance that I think casual sex is
almost always more risky for women than
it's worth it for women why because
being one being alone with a man that
you don't know basically is what we're
talking about is inherently dangerous
for for women just because that physical
asymmetry two because women are the on
who get pregnant like even with the pill
even with the most reliable
contraception you've still got that
small chance um and so that either means
that
you carry pregnancy to term with all of
its physical risks and emotional risks
or it means you have an abortion like
basically all of those costs are born by
the woman the man might have no idea
this is even a occurred right so there's
this kind of essential
asymmetry which you can try and get past
with technology with contraceptive
technology but you can't quite you know
it's still there the psychological
differences between the sexes in terms
of um sexuality are are are are also
important they're not as massive as say
upper body strength but on average that
they are very very marked and one of
those differences is that men are
basically Keener on casual sex than
women are men want to jump into bed more
quickly than women do how do we know
that um looking cross culturally is one
big clue because you might say and some
people do say like there are these
studies they're quite funny where
researchers will go on to University
campuses and get an attractive woman an
attractive man and they go up to members
of the opposite sex and basically
proposition them and say like do you
want to go back to mine right now and um
in 0% of cases to women say yes 0% and
this is consistent um whereas in quite a
high proportion of cases men will say
yes right and that is consistent across
it's been done in different times
different places you know you might say
oh it's because women are scared of
shaming or you know that there's like a
social penalty for women and that's a
little bit true but then when you
see you know there's been surveys done
of like basically every country in the
world to my knowledge and in no country
do women watch more porn than men in no
country do women Express more of a
desire of casual sex than men do in no
country do women buy sex more than men
do like it's basically only men who buy
sex it's very very rare for women to buy
sex when you see these gaps absolutely
everywhere I think that's a very strong
indication that you're dealing with
something
innate that should be that should
certainly that's certainly the simplest
explanation isn't it rather than that
you you know you flip the coin a
thousand times and it comes up head
heads every time is that
ploss is there anything in the animal
kingdom that might refute that point is
there any you know certain animals where
the woman is the dominant sort of sexual
um aggressor or the so yes but not
animals that are similar to us so like
spiders or something like that um in
terms of other primates I mean there are
there is variation with other primates
um Bobo are quite into casual sex
forance Bob are quite different because
people do get a little bit triggered
because you're not saying that women
don't enjoy sex at all you're not saying
that they they aren't as um horny in
certain situations as men but you're
just saying on average men are more keen
on casual sex than women are yes yes and
there are they're always outliers of
course I mean you're talking about
overlapping bell curves right yeah so
the average is a difference but the
thing with overlapping boves is it's
more obious at the tales MH so for
instance like people who people who buyx
or people who become addicted to porn or
something they're basically entirely
male because you're talking about this
sort of tippy tippy tale of people who
really really desire sexual variety most
people obviously are not out there most
people are somewhere in the middle but
when you're talking about
culture you need to be thinking about
the big picture you need to be thinking
like okay what what would a what does a
culture of casualx how would a culture
of casual sex affect men and women
differently and how does it affect women
differently because if you're saying
that it's an eight it's not a sort of
social construct there's something deep
within our wiring in men and women that
makes us have a different sort of sort
of proclivity towards sex casual sex um
why does that have a consequence that's
negative for women basically what women
are more likely to want is
monogamy like not necessarily marriage
but cly signals of commitment if you
think about this in our evolutionary in
terms of our evolutionary history it
makes perfect sense right because having
sex is pretty much the most
consequential thing a woman can do right
because if you get pregnant you've got
nine months of pregnancy which is risky
in itself um child birth which is very
risky in the ancestral environment less
so now fortunately and then you've got
um maybe 15 years or something of having
to look after a child until it's capable
of being e economically
self-sufficient that's an enormous right
thing to happen in your life whereas and
and it also means that women can only
women can only really reproduce once a
year absolute Max right whereas men in
theory can reproduce thousands of times
a year and can have basically no
involvement in raising their children
take basically no risks whatsoever so if
you look at it in those terms of course
women would be
pickier of course they would and that is
indeed what we see but I think what
we're I think the the reason that young
women Express so much unhappiness at the
moment with the sexual culture is that a
lot of young
women kind of go along with
it that they they I know this is this is
kind of surprising to men right and I've
spoken to men about this who who find
this completely amusing they're like why
would if you don't want to have sex you
don't have sex it's fine like what's
what's the big problem like women are so
lucky because they can't step out onto
the street without being propositioned
they can have you know they have so much
Choice like you know you girls are so
lucky what are you complaining about and
I think it's this problem that one okay
two problems one is that um both sexes
are not necessarily very good at
understanding what the other sex
actually want and that's partly comes
from the fact that I don't think we're
honest enough about sex differences so
like men think that the fact that women
can get casual sex at any time of any
day is amazing and women are like but I
don't want that that's that's like
horrible I don't want to Shag some
random man on the street right um so
there's that Gap in sort of uh there's
that empathy Gap um and similarly I
think women have an empathy Gap like
they probably don't realize how they
don't realize one how many men basically
don't have access to any kind of sexual
relationships and feel incredibly
resentful and frustrated about that they
don't realize how scary it is for men to
approach a woman things like that so
there's like a mutual sort of
incomprehension um and I think the other
thing is men find it very hard to
imagine doing what a lot of young women
do which is basically going along with
sex that they don't really want to have
because they want to be
polite and because they don't want to
scare off a man who maybe they do fancy
and because they don't want to be uncool
and because they don't want to be weird
and they want to be
approved you know one of the features of
teenage girl psychology and maybe this
is into the 20s as well but particularly
teenage girls is teenage girls are so so
concerned about what's normal whenever
you have contagious mental
illnesses which like historically are
quite common so something like um the
saale and Witch
Trials um apparently girls are now
giving like getting tourettes from Tik
Tok because it's like a viral thing on
Tik Tok um uh hysteria in the 19th
century anorexia there's a lot of
examples of these right where um mental
illnesses which are seem to be socially
contagious people catch it from each
other you end up with this mimetic
effect they always start with teenage
girls always sometimes they spread to
other groups but teenage girls are
always like the first you know and I
think it's because teenage girls
probably for self-protective reasons
there must be some adaptive reason here
are very very socially sensitive they're
very like
constantly aware of their social
position what other people are doing
what's cool what's not cool um obsessed
which is also translates to things like
fashion and slang slang ditto you know a
lot of slang starts with teenage girls
because they're this very um this very
mtic group right and that's fine like
that's not necessarily a bad thing but
it does sometimes have bad effects and
one of them is for instance the idea
that being approved is incredibly cringe
has taken hold really really effectively
among this group of girls and so you
know I'll I'll talk to girls or or read
or listen to girls
saying
like you know I went along with the most
like degrading upsetting whatever sexual
things because like I don't know why
because I wanted him to think I was cool
because I didn't you know it's and I
think that's something that I think
that's something that a lot of a lot of
people find difficult to empathize with
and we and will say and some men do say
in criticism of my position
like why don't these why don't these
girls just sort of Get
Grip when you say that um there's young
girls and women going along with it yeah
are you talking about both the type and
the frequency of sex or you just talking
about the Casual Sex and then the
different ways people have sex like BDSM
and choking and these kinds of things
yeah so all of the above I mean I think
particularly it's the um BDSM is a bit
of a complicated one
um we'll get to that
then um in terms of the the casual sex
thing so like having sex sex on a first
date okay kind of thing um historically
very very very rare like such a weird
cultural convention right and you think
that happened because because the pill
number one yeah because it means you can
do it without it being without pregnancy
being at high risk um and I think it's
all ends up being Downstream of that
that it then changes like it basically
used to be you can actually read
accounts of women who were um who were
who were in their 20 say at the time
when the pill came along and they'll say
I used
to um it used to be the case you go out
on a date and the expectation is we will
not be having sex right that was the
that was the agreed upon thing not to
say it never happened obviously it did
but that was the default and then you
might have sex um on engagement or when
you get married or um
maybe when you're going steady you that
expression you hear in like old high
school films but that was a way down the
track right and then the pill comes
along and you you you read women saying
like it suddenly completely changed
things it suddenly was like the default
was not we're not having sex the default
was we might and so suddenly it became a
negotiation and it became a um there's
this evolu psychologist um David bus who
specializes in human sexuality um and he
writes about this sort of eternal power
play basically where women would like to
wait longer before they have sex and men
would like to have sex sooner and
there's always this sort of voling back
and forth like who is going who's going
to who's going to win basically right
and the pill massively shifts it in the
have sex sooner Direction and so yeah
you say women who you know used to be
the Assumption I would not have sex
after a date and now I'm having to like
this is so often what what actually is
happening in me two kind of cases I mean
obviously me too cases is a lot of range
you've got
straightforward really criminal Behavior
like Harvey wiste or whatever but you
also quite often what you what what's
going on is it's not
even it's so much more subtle than that
it's like like the aiz zanzari case do
you remember that quite an interesting
case because he in terms of the response
say Z anzari you know famous actor
comedian he goes on a date with this
woman who's a fan
and it's all going well and then they go
back to his and he wants her to have sex
and she doesn't want to basically but
she also he's like a famous man who she
likes like she might want to in the
future she doesn't want to like she
doesn't want to offend him she doesn't
want to mess it up and so there's this
like subtle kind of tussle and they end
up doing some sexual stuff or whatever
she goes home she feels terrible she
subsequently says to him you took
advantage basically by text he says
sorry and then later she sort of spills
the beans in um in a magazine
article and that kind of thing is
basically an invention of the sexual
Revolution that kind of conflict where
there's that degree of ambiguity it
wasn't that unreasonable for him to
think that sex would be a like would
happen it wasn't that unreasonable the
problem that she found herself in is
that she had to try and as politely as
possible say no without like that's a
really difficult social game isn't it
particularly when everyone's
drunk right and she ended up I
guess like they both messed up to some
degree like he didn't read her social
cues she didn't communicate clearly like
so often that's what's really going on
with these me to cases there's like
there so much ambiguity in terms of what
everyone is supposed to do and you've
got this tussle between what men and
women
prefer
and I mean adding alcohol is really bad
you know there's this bias that men have
it's like a de like a like a deep-seated
bias where men will tend to see sexual
interest where there isn't they're more
likely to see sexual interest where
there is none they kind of overestimate
how much women fancy them basically I
know talking
about and alcohol makes it worse oh
really yeah alcohol exaggerates that
effects so if a man's drunk he's more
likely to see seual interest when it
isn't there and then if she's drunk as
well she's less able to successfully
navigate this difficult social situation
do you know what I mean it justes just
feel like where the the lack of social
rules just sort of sets everyone up to
fail and it's kind of inevitable that
you're going to end up with these
um
these I guess
tragedies right of people not
understanding one another so sex
becoming a negotiation now at when
historically it wasn't such a
negotiation and therefore sex happening
much sooner in the interaction between
women men and women often on the first
date maybe the second date um you're
kind of alluding to it there but I just
want to get clarity on you're saying it
harms both men and women in the long
term I think in different ways yeah so I
think the harm that's done to women is
feeling
is is emo well no there are obviously
some situations where the worst possible
thing happens you know you go home with
a man who turns out to be incredibly
dangerous more common is women just
feeling bad about themselves how do we
know that like is there have they done
survey data oh really yeah yeah you just
ask women like how do you feel
after um different kinds of sexual
encounter like a one night stand yeah
and then you ask men the same thing and
women feel um disgusting basically to
some degree is sort of the dominant um I
included this quiz in my book right for
men for men and women like basically um
for people who had had casual sex of
some kind or another right who
participated in this culture and I I
sort of pulled the questions from my
male and female friends um and
uh one of the questions for women was
have you ever had a consensual sexual
experience which now makes thinking
about it in retrospect makes you feel
like kind of physically uncomfortable
that gives you a disgust response um and
uh so many women say yes to that and one
of the reasons for that is that um women
have a much lower disgust threshold than
men do so like women feel women feel
discusted more easily than men do um in
response to all sorts of things but
including in response to um not
non-consensual but unwanted sex you see
like the kind of subtle distinction like
legal but not really desired sex women
are more likely to find that just makes
them feel disgusted because well
probably because of this evolutionary
thing right where like having sex with a
man who you
don't want to get pregnant by is a bad
decision and a big risk and a big risk
yeah so you talk about in the book about
um
how icks are more prevalent amongst
women essentially yeah the it yeah it's
a really interesting expression isn't it
it's the uh women use it to mean when
they're like they like man and then
suddenly something s switches and they
get the yck and all of a sudden they're
like oh no yeah I had um I've got a
friend who I sh name um who met this
really great guy on a dating app and I
was I was looking because she was asking
me for some advice on her dating profile
or whatever and not that I could give
anyone advice because I've basically
never been on any dating app but um she
showed me this photo of this guy and
this guy was like really goodlooking he
looked like he played rugby or something
he was just like I was like what a great
guy and she was like no he's got boxes
on the the Wardrobe behind him oh she
was like he's got like cardboard boxes
on the Wardrobe behind him she was like
G I was like this guy is like he's like
perfect he's like he's like an action
figure but because he had boxes cboard
boxes on the Wardrobe behind him in the
profile picture she was like G
interesting bizarre I thought you you
know is that a cultural thing or is that
innate this cuz there's no guy that I
know that would look at a profile of a
stunning woman and go she's got
cardboard boxes on the although might
they do think for a woman they were like
deciding whether to marry do you know
what I
mean because men do tend to have sort of
two there are kind of two tracks like
like there's the woman I'd have sex with
and there's a woman I'd marry and
they're and they're different they're
different categories and maybe the I
don't know about cble boxes necessarily
but maybe what it's showing is um you're
like messy disorganized not very grown
up yeah or maybe you don't have maybe
you're living at someone else's house
maybe and that's maybe you're move don't
have much money she I guess she's
looking for cues of like being a really
longterm yeah good bet which goes back
to your evolutionary principle exactly
yeah that's a sensible thing to be doing
really I think I should be listened to
generally do you think like our I think
our bodies often
know I think our bodies are often
sensitive to like little cues that we
might miss consciously so you think
women should listen to their ex yeah but
some of them are getting a little the
one that always makes me laugh is if a
man on a date the date goes really
really well and then at the end of the
day he pulls out his wallet to pay and
he has a velcro
wallet
right is that an egg for
you I I I'm not sure if it would be a
personal I okay but I guess maybe we
should respect it as a as a as an
idiosyncratic I I don't
know I think in general it's goes for
men as well I think it's go for people I
think it's um you ever read the gift of
Fear gav De Becca book really great book
it was published like 30 years ago or
something I think Oprah made it quite a
big
deal and uh it's about it's by a um I
think you to be a bodyguard he's like a
personal security expert and he tells
all these stories it's mostly about
women and maybe this applies to men too
um where women basically ended up
getting um attacked by men who they did
actually have bad vibes about in some
way but they ignored those and it cost
them right and his argument is that um
fear is a gift and that you should
listen to your instincts because often
again highly you know very uh evolv to
be very very attuned these instincts
right there's a reason why we are
descended from people who listen to
their instincts in this regard um and
often your unconscious will spot things
that your conscious brain hasn't
spotted and maybe you'll be worried
about being impolite or being weird or
whatever you know so I can't remember
all of the stories but I remember
there's one of a woman who a man um
offered to help her carry her shopping
up to her
flat and he was really insistent about
it and she was like okay so she let him
and then as soon as he was in the flat
he shut the door and attacked her and
she was lucky to
survive she she said
later that it it was
weird it he like he it didn't feel like
he was just being nice she got she got
bad vibes from him she got the ick
whatever there was something like going
on
but her conscious brain said he's just
being nice and so she ignored her
instincts and she let him into her flat
and that's the sort of example where
actually I think that our unconscious
brains know are actually very wise about
a lot of these things women's more than
men's in that regard interesting
question I would guess probably yes
because particularly in relation to the
sexual violence threat right which women
carry and men don't as much I mean men
certainly don't carry it from women if
men get sexually assaulted it will be by
other men almost always
um like again you know really
interestingly if you show women I think
this is true for women but not for men
as far as I know if you show women a map
of their local area and ask them to say
which streets they would not want to
walk down alone late at night and they
you know they highlight those streets
they map on perfectly to actual rates of
crime and these women know nothing about
this they're not familiar with like
local police statistics or whatever it's
just Vibes they just feel unsafe in
these areas they're actually those vibes
are actually really accurate
surprisingly so and I guess because yeah
it's this evolved thing that
um like to put it really bluntly rape is
a very bad outcome for women
evolutionarily right it's something you
really want to avoid and so we have
these inbuilt systems right well
sometimes but it it's also just that the
the well there are several costs there's
the there's the carrying a bait the
rapist baby and all the downsides of
that right there's the risk of being
ostracized by your community maybe your
husband
like casts you out there are so many
downsides even aside from the physical
threat um we've evolved some very good
systems to try and protect ourselves
against that I also think that to some
extent you know you know the 15-year-old
girls they do have these instincts
so they they have some degree of like
inbuilt protective instincts but they
also they do also lack life
experience um which is I think why we
have or ought to have social conventions
that also protect them do you know
what's interesting as a you know this is
called the Dio podcast and although
we've straight quite far from business
and people tell me that all the time um
my My Lens because I run businesses when
I'm not doing this is always to think
about how a lot of this supplies to
business and as you were talking about
the way that I heard it is that women
have a different sort of radar yeah sort
of like than men and are able to spot
different things than men and I thought
about how useful that is in business and
what a great case for diversity that is
both in like the hiring process because
often and I've this is just an
observation from running businesses
often the women that run some of my
businesses are able to spot something in
certain candidates that it wasn't
abundantly clear to me and often again
this is
anecdotal um one candidate who all the
men in the interview process are good
with fine with all of the women in the
interview process have a problem with
and a problem they almost can't explain
interesting it's a Vibe they're getting
it's a Vibe yeah and the men in the
interview process often sometimes not
always don't have the problem with this
individual but then all of the women in
my organization have a problem with this
person
and so over time I've learned that maybe
I don't have the radar and maybe you
know maybe I need to listen to both
sides to make an informed decision and
it's plausible when you think about
Evolution that men and women have a
different sort of sixth sense that
regard I see it in my partner obviously
I can't give an anecdotal example
because my partner but it's like she's
operating on a different frequency often
times to me and that's kind of what
makes the relationship work my husband
says I'm a witch yeah I think my
partner's a witch if we can if we making
it a safe space my partner is a witch
but she's a she's a white witch and she
knows she is but she can just it's like
she can see things that I can't see yeah
yeah I mean h there's a great book to be
written um about like how these sex
differences play out in the
workplace because again I think it's
because we because there's a bit of a
taboo about talking about it too much
and there is obviously a risk I mean I
don't the reason big reason why
feminists don't want
to uh
overplay these psychological differences
between men and women is because
historically they have been used to
discriminate against women right the
women are too irrational to do XY um so
and that's a completely reasonable
concern but I also think that just
pretending therefore that they don't
that they don't exist doesn't really do
anyone any favors because they do um and
I think we should just be honest and
like say simultan be honest but also
simultaneously be like you know this
doesn't mean that women are inferior is
um for me it's a case for diversity in
some places I mean I think there
probably is an argument
for in like the hiring process for
example exactly exactly I think there
are probably some roles where or indeed
things like like in policing for
instance um you know to be really direct
I don't think the women should be in
Frontline policing roles because I think
that the physical differences are too
profound particularly in the UK where
women don't carry where police officers
don't carry guns
the the average woman even a really
strong fit woman is going to really
struggle in a direct confrontation with
the average male but if I was to to re
that I'd say you know what what what
happens if you have a crime
where um involving several women and a
Man shows up without the empathy or
without the ability to sort of resonate
or to relate so yeah so this so I think
women should be involved in criminal
justice
but for instance probably women are
better at interviewing yeah I wouldn't
be surprised an interrogation you know
so there are probably some roles where
women are going to outperform men again
it's you know it's the overlapping B
cures there'll be some men who are
really good at this whatever but you'd
expect there to be a female advantage in
that role but there isn't a female
advantage in the
like being out and having physical
confrontations with people role and I
think that's fine I don't think that we
should that this's this very frustrating
tendency um in policing in for fire
service as well to for people to notice
the fact that there are fewer say female
firefighters and therefore to lower the
the physical demands to get more female
firefighters in what if the what if the
physical demands what if the test was is
the test the same for both I if I want
to be a Frontline police officer I have
to pass the same physical test
irrespective of gender yes that's true
but one of the things that they've done
over the years because of pressure like
feminist pressure to be blunt is that
they've they changed the standards so
they've um say reduce the upper body
strength component or they've made the
like in policing and in firefighting all
these and and Military you have to a
bleep test stuff like that um they've
lowered the standards necessary in a lot
of that's really the issue then versus
the yeah yeah that's what yeah because
there's I mean several of the women
upstairs would whoop my ass in and bleep
test they will they like run marathons
and stuff all of them at the bloody
office they' all whoop my ass so really
the issue is about making sure the
standards are sufficient for for the
requirement lower the standards so that
you can get more women into these
physical roles just accept the fact that
there will be I mean I do know actually
I like one F on firefighter that I know
personally from Jiu-Jitsu she's so
strong she's so fit she passed very very
high standard great you know you will
get that woman in a thousands who can
and in which case fine you know but what
I what I don't think is wise at all is
like engineering it such that you have
50-50 in every role I think that that's
a recipe for disaster so but just to be
clear on this point because you said um
you don't think women should be involved
in Frontline policing I if they can meet
the very high standards I think that one
woman in a thousand yes but I but I one
woman in a thousand is that yeah you
think that's it yeah and you is that
because of upper body strength you're
talking about that's the big one it's
also aggression okay like you do need a
certain level of you can watch a lot of
um body cam of um police having um
physical
altercations and uh it's quite common
forence to see female police hesitate
more than male police do because ibly
not always a bad thing if you think
about the amount of people just being
killed depends it depends doesn't it I
mean yeah there's also yeah policing is
a complicated one because also in
America say whether police are have guns
female police are less likely to shoot
the male police
are so you know maybe that's good right
like but if it's something like I don't
know there there's a lot of body cam
footage you can watch of say a female
and a male police partnership
confronting someone the man goes right
in and the woman is like because these
are quite um these are quite deep seated
deep-seated instincts to be more to be
less physically aggressive and this is a
thing I mean we talked about right at
the beginning this thing like you know
the testosterone curve for men in their
teens 20s
30s it has its disadvantages it
translates into sexual violence and
violent crime and whatever but there are
also obviously situations where you need
that we actually having physical
courage is so important if you're
running into a burning building or
whatever you know so it's this again
it's this like Eternal problem that
societies have to try and solve like we
have have this youthful male energy and
we want to put it to the best possible
purposes and we don't want it put to
dangerous purposes like how do we do
that it's so complicated because um I
understand and I understand that there's
physical differences but policing is so
so complicated because you're policing
both men and women so women have a
different testosterone curve for example
so would it therefore be better for a
woman to show up in that scenario who is
going to match that person's maybe
although women really commit very much
violent crime at all so if you're
talking about like physical ocations the
chances of it being a woman are not high
but if a man shows up then when maybe he
would escalate more he would escalate
more I'd had a few conversations about
the subject with people um and then I
remember saying obviously it's a
particular front of Mind story what
happened in Australia recently with the
terrorist attack in the mall and we were
in Australia at the time and I was
watching the footage there woman that
showed up with a gun shot the terrorist
and there was also that man did you see
who like barricaded the escalator yes
and he was holding still member of the
public yeah yeah was so that was really
interesting because this idea of I read
this article about heroic masculinity in
the New York Times written by a woman
and it does the article goes to
highlight these instances where the man
runs in the building 911 I think it was
like 98% of the people that died in 9/11
firefighters were were men it was a
couple of women as well yeah and then I
saw that video of the terorist attack in
Australia and you have again you have
the guy on this the escalator holding a
chair threatening this terrorist that
he's going to smash him with a chair if
he comes closer and then the person that
ultimately ended the terrorist attack
was a woman with a gun M and so you know
it's new it's super nuanced isn't it
this yeah what's really interesting
about this physical courage thing is um
so often people say later that they
didn't even think about it it wasn't
there was no conscious process there was
no like should I oh should I they just
do it do it yeah yeah and you don't
really know if you're like that I think
until you're confronted with a situation
like that you know when women will
definitely do that that absolutely not
thinking is protecting their kids yeah
yeah yeah and then and you do read
amazing accounts of women driving on
their children and taking lifting cars
because like their child is stuck under
it and they just have this like Almighty
surge of strength like there are and
actually that's that's an interesting
situation where women can be very
aggressive in defending their children
like and that's true in other species as
well that you can have this just the Red
Mist
descends in that set of circumstances
mhm so
yeah something on we're talking about I
and I just wanted to cover it off
because um there's kind of two sides to
this ick argument there's this I've got
this radar which is useful and it's
protecting me and then there's this
other sort of more newer
social ticktock ification of the ick
which is probably causing people not to
get in relationships I've got a friend
that um she's been on about she goes on
about 100 dates a year and she's she's
like I think she's actually starting a
dating podcast because she's that unsuc
sucessful at dating and in my head I go
I think this might be part of like a
broader social issue that the reason
we're not coming together we're having
less sex all these things is because in
part because of these icks we think
everything is a problem because social
media told us it was yes and yeah and I
think it's probably
true going back to this mimetic thing
right there are probably
some um social
status signs which are very mtic like
one of the things that some women will
do for instance is they'll like say I
will only date a man over 6 foot and
actually and just set that cut off and
you can be very objective about that on
the app because they say h toia i mean
I'm sure everyone's exaggerating but
like they say how toia and it's it's
really silly thing to do actually
because you're cutting off like I don't
know 80% of men more depending on the
group of men um you're just cutting them
out and actually if you were to meet
this person in real life the fact that
they were 5'9
wouldn't you wouldn't even notice
probably so sometimes I think that um
modern technology can encourage a level
of pickiness which is actually really
counterproductive and probably actually
and and again it's
like I think so much of um Mutual sexual
attraction is about the uh about
pheromones about Vibe about being in
person and daing apps don't capture that
at all so I'm sure that definitely works
again
um yeah there are 100% women who are way
too picky definitely definitely we we
talked a second ago about how the
introduction of the pill and how that
caused negotiation in this first sort of
encounter yeah impacts women um we
didn't cover how it impacts men
Downstream I would would it be better
for men if there were you know we waited
longer before we had sex with a woman
you know in your book you talk about
waiting 3 months but then you whispered
something to me which I'll let you say
just in case you don't want to say it I
think probably actually waiting till
engagement is a better call so you think
we should wait until we are engaged with
someone before we have sex yeah you bite
your lip when you say that you nervous
I'm saying that because there are
tradeoffs and I acknowledge them and
also it's more difficult to do that in a
culture where that's weird yeah because
what you end up doing is cutting out
anyone who who for whom that's too weird
right like you basically cut out a big
chunk of your possible matches by
insisting on that unless say you're very
religious in which case everyone in your
religious community is going to have the
same expectation but for most people
that's going to be quite um quite a
weird thing to demand which is why I
said three months in the book because it
seemed like more reasonable um and more
achievable and also because my mom said
to me when I was she read the draft she
was like if you say this if you say wait
till engagement or marriage that's the
first thing every Reviewer is going to
notice about the book it's going to be a
big deal so it'll be you you'll get more
of a hearing you know if you're more
reasonable able the thing is we're a
really weird culture in this regard like
basically every other culture there is
obviously variation you know my so my
first degree is
anthropology and one of the things
about anthropology which is so um
powerful and interesting when you're
interested in contemporary social issues
is that um there are a lot of
differences between cultures of course
there are and that's what's interesting
for anthropologists but there are also a
lot of similarities and actually there
have been various efforts over the years
to compose lists of human universals
which you find in absolutely every
culture um it's called the
Anthropologist veto if you find a
culture that doesn't have this then you
can kind of strike it off the universals
list but the universals list is pretty
long and it includes things like every
culture has religion in some fashion
every culture has gender roles in some
fashion every culture has wages war in
some fashion there are things that
everyone does and um everyone has
marriage customs of some kind they can
look different from ours I mean the most
common way in which cultures differ from
from our culture or at least our culture
up until recently is um permitting
polygamous marriage so about 80% of
cultures permit polygamous marriage only
permitting monogamous marriage is more
unusual I think we're dri drifting back
towards permitting
polygamous marriage through polyamory
but that's we can get onto that that the
thing is I just think the thinking that
went for for for sort of radicals of the
1960s what happened in the 1960s it was
the pill and other Tech as well it was
also an ideological thing it was also
people wanting to completely
reject the old order you know reject
religion reject conservatism whatever
and what a lot of people said at the
time was why are we needlessly
restricting people why are we you know
um limiting people's freedom in a way
that makes them miserable we just got to
throw this out the window right and I
think that
um that doesn't work like throwing
conventions out the window that's not
how humans work we have a tendency to
construct in one way or another rules
around these things and human
reproduction is like the most important
it's a very very complex and delicate
thing right that you have to get right
it's really it's like a it's like this
enormous coordination problem you've got
to find the right person you've got to
find them at the right time you've got
to like sure commitment from them and of
course there's this whole game about how
like men might want to have sex with
more people woman wants to tie a man
down like it's really complicated game
and what um society's come up with is
ways of regulating it ways of regulating
heterosexuality basically right which
means restricting women's Freedom it
does that's what feminists have always
noted it also means restricting men's
Freedom it says there are certain things
that men can't do and we had such a
system you you know we had the like you
can't have sex outside of marriage
marriage has to be
monogamous all these all these rules
that you have to ask the bride's
father's permission all this stuff we
had it all right and we basically threw
out the window I mean it lingers a bit
but we have very low I mean in London
right uh now half of children will reach
age of 15 without their biological
father in the
home there are very very high figures
compared with say 100 years ago very
very high figures so we've seen
basically the dissolution of that old
order and there are upsides to that
there are but there are big downsides
too and I
think every culture has marriage customs
of some kind apart from ours sort of
like what makes us
think that we alone among peoples can
just have a free-for-all can just you
know style it out people do whatever
they feel like do you know what I mean I
think that I think that the what what
anthropology tells us is that actually
we need structure we need conventions
and constraints and and and uh and
templates you know and those will
sometimes feel restrictive and there
will sometimes be people for whom they
don't work very well um but I think the
idea we can just do without them is not
true I mean going back to the polyamory
thing if you look at dating app
data one of the sometimes people
exaggerate this effect a little bit
right but there is a tendency for
basically very attractive men High
status men the the hu heers right to um
to do really well on dating apps to get
a lot of uh attention from a lot of
women and then for the bottom chunk of
men in terms of attractiveness to get
none to just get no matches whatsoever
and so and this is a tendency it's
called hypergamy female hypergamy that
women will tend to want to marry up
socially so they'll want to marry a man
who is richer than them better educated
than them more successful than them Etc
um
and uh yeah I mean this is basically
what you see when people are left to
their own devices on dating apps and you
can monitor it carefully um that is
basically what people do and the problem
you end up with is that um when you
don't have a system of monogamous
marriage and you don't have the
expectation that people wait um there's
really nothing stopping those men from
just having loads of girlfriends maybe
having them at the same time like having
little harim right you know not not
calling them that but having basically
play the field and not being forced to
commit because like no one expects them
to really and
it's like good fun for those men it's
frustrating for the women because
they're like they're they're they're
having relationships with these men in
the hope that it will turn into
commitment and then it never does and so
they end up feeling really bitter right
and it's also frustrating for the less
attractive men who are getting no
attention whatsoever and who read me or
listen to me saying the sexual
Revolution was good for men and it's
like it wasn't good for me I know I know
I know there's a real there's like a
inbuilt inequality s but hasn't there
always been an inbuilt inequality in the
male experience well this is what's
interesting about the monogamy polygamy
system right in a monogamous system to
some extent that's prevented because
these high status men unless you're like
a king unless you're Henry VII okay you
can't you can't have multiple women on
the go you have to commit to one woman
and basically remove yourself from the
dating pool right
and so it isn't possible for the really
attractive men to sort of amass a lot of
women um and so I've heard it described
as sexual socialism monogamous marriage
because it does sort of encourage like
an like a equalizing effect um one each
yeah whereas in a polygamous system
obviously that's completely permissible
and you know in extreme circumstances
you'll have high status men having you
know 100 women or something like that in
historical examples um and then low
status men just have none and it's it's
quite an unstable one of the downsides
of a polygamous system it is quite
common and it's probably to some extent
our species Norm it's I think it's what
people kind of do and left to their own
devices that's like the natural way we
settle if there are no social
restrictions
um one downside of it is having a lot of
unmarried or like having a lot of
sexless Ben is quite bad for social
stability because they're very
frustrated they're angry they don't have
a lot to lose one of the really
interesting things about going back to
testosterone when men um have children
and get married their testosterone
levels drop they become less aggressive
like in the year after baby's born men
commit less crime they're less
promiscuous like there's a real sort of
um just have a new sleep I'm sure that's
part of it but there is like if you're
directly involved in caring for your own
child you do as a man you do become less
less High te and that has a sort of
taming effect right or it's like or it's
channeling male energies in a different
direction which at a societal scale can
be really good in terms of having a
peaceful stable society and polygamous
societies do tend to be more unstable in
that sense um there's also there's more
um domestic violence in pelist societies
there's more conflict within households
like there are quite a lot of bad
outcomes that you get from polygamous
systems so even though monogamy is maybe
not the
norm anthropologically it does seem to
be a good norm and some of the
most successful societies have adopted
monogamy as their as their Norm um and
have been successful partly because of
that if you um are to have a daughter in
the future I know you've got a son
already and you've got another boy on
the way but if you are to have a
daughter in the future and that daughter
comes up to you at um let's say 18 years
old and says Mom I heard on that podcast
you did ages ago 20 years ago that that
you said I shouldn't have sex with the
guy I'm dating until engagement yeah Mom
can you just confirm why what what would
you say to your daughter there's few
reasons one is because women in
particular tend to get emotionally
bonded from sex more than men do do we
know that because anecdotally you know
in the group
chat confirmed yes
but is there science to support that
idea yeah I think that you can measure
it in terms of um things like oxytocin
okay and um there's actually I wrote
about this in the book there's this
whole like horrible genre of
journalistic Articles um basically
advising women on how to have casual sex
without being miserable and um sort of
what what can you do to like hack your
brain so you can have casual sex without
feeling Dreadful afterwards this is like
public acknowledgement this is a thing
and one of the ADV one of the pieces of
advice is things like um take ecstasy
while you're having sex because it will
like dull your emotional bonding
response things like that which I just
find so dystopian I'm like or you could
just not yeah or you know you don't have
to like try and biohack your brain to uh
endure something you don't really want
to do but anyway um women get more
emotionally bonded from sex than men do
and then you do end up with this um kind
of asymmetry which comes up in in the
group chat right of like she basically
is more into him than he is into her um
and if there's
no commitment not even any necessarily
social acknowledgement of the
relationship it might be just uh friends
with benefits or something that can be
really painful um so it's a good idea to
basically if you hold off on having sex
you hold off on having that effect and
it means you can make clear eye
decisions if you see red flags you're
more likely to respond to them properly
if you're not like the fuddled by
oxytocin basically the other thing is
it's
like it's just a really really good
demonstration of commitment if you you
you always risk getting pregnant you
always do even if you're on Modern
contraception there's always that risk
and do you want a man who is going to
ditch you if that happens basically like
how how can you how can you find some
guarantee that he's not going to do
that a diamond ring is a pretty good one
don't you
think there are other ways you could
demonstrate it but that's a really good
one and it's a kind of tried and tested
one it's pretty crazy how significant
the shift in attitudes towards casual
sex have changed I was reading some
research earlier that said 67% of genen
Z think it's justifiable to have casual
sex compared to 12% of the pre-war
generation yeah and you know when we you
talk about the diamond ring being a good
way to get commitment yeah but I I had a
divorce lawyer on the podcast the other
day and um he said to me that 56% of
marriages
fail and that one thing that skews that
though you know is that people who have
multiple marriages more like to get
divorced yes he did say I think 86% of
people that get married again yeah after
that yeah so there's some but but yes I
mean the principle is true so do you
think marriage as a system or a
technology is good
do you just think it's cuz in the book
it sounds like you think it's just the
best available option yeah because okay
so the key reason I think that marriage
is good specifically for women right
it's good for men too but the particular
reason why it's good for women and why I
think that feminist arguments against it
are flawed is that the nature of
carrying children is that you have a
period of some period of time where you
cannot participate in the labor market
right where you're too pregnant you've
got a newborn whatever I mean I when I
had my first baby I I calculated that in
the first um weeks and months of his
life I was spending 40 hours a week just
breastfeeding right so you
can't you
basically mothers and babies aren't
really
individuals right in the sense that
they're not completely
autonomous my friend Mary Harrington
who's also an author um she said that
she this really like
um she realized this for the first time
when she had her daughter and um her
baby was crying to be fed in the middle
of the night
and she realized that in a sort
of if you if you uh looked at their
relationship in an individualist way you
were like okay you've got one human
being who like wants to be fed and
another human being who can provide the
feeding um but they're autonomous agents
they can just make their own decisions
or whatever she's like no no no I can't
just decide now I'm going to ignore it
I'm going to go back to bed like every
every cell in your body is saying I must
go feed my baby it completely changes
you you physically psychologically it's
like complete transformative experience
because you your biological goal becomes
keep this baby alive and the baby is
completely dependent on you there's this
uh the child
psychotherapist um Donald winot said
there's no such thing as a baby there's
only a baby and someone right babies
can't survive on their own and normally
that's someone is the mother and when it
comes to things like breastfeeding it
has to be really I mean we now have
formula and so on so we can sort of it's
that old thing of using technology to
take the edge off some of these social
realities but it's still basically the
case that moms and babies are like tied
together like this emotionally
biologically and during those times in
your life you need another adult at
least one other adult who's going to do
the you know getting food paying rent
doing all this basic stuff to support
you and who that adult is
is uh something that one can ex people
have experimented with right like
attempts of communal child rearing say
or I mean what to some extent you can do
is depend on the state yeah right depend
on the welfare state depend on um say um
state provided child care services
things like
that that all of those
solutions kind of work but come with
significant
downsides the only solution I think the
best solution that we've come up with
historically is for the father of the
child to play that role basically and
then then on this subject of marriage
just to really interrogate this further
because I feel like I'm in two minds
about it a okay a because of the stats
show that 56% you know ended marriage of
divorce and you've kind of rebutted that
because of the remarriage rate but then
even the amount of people that seem to
be in unhappy marriages seems to be
pretty significant this is part of what
the divorce lawyer said to me he said
you know you could say 56% of marriages
fail but if you defined failure as one
or two people in that marriage being
unhappy the number is significantly
higher and I know a lot of people again
it's anecdotal so it's not worth much
but a lot of people that are married you
know who I would Define as being really
just kind of the divorce part is so
uncomfortable and painful that they've
just decided to stay together M which is
not always in the interest of the kids
because if that home becomes toxic in
any regard the trauma has passed down
sufficiently to the kids okay I take all
of that yeah but I do think that one the
divorce rate is to some extent a product
of a divorce culture right where it's
very permissible in fact very normal for
people to you know a really really like
tricky bit for people to get through is
the first year after a first child is
born because everyone's tired everyone's
stressed money there are money pressures
Etc Etc no sex yeah there are lots of
reasons why that's a difficult time and
it's quite common for people to whether
or not they're married but for people to
break up during that period and then to
regret it because actually it's a
temporary period of your life it will
get better you will get less stressed
you will get less tired Etc so to some
extent a divorce culture will sometimes
encourage people to make um permanent
decisions which they they will regret
and there is there are stats showing
that quite a lot of people do regret
getting divorced something like a third
if people regret getting divorced so
there's that the other thing is that
there is a lot of uh it's not just it's
true yes that the people who have
multiple marriages are more likely to
get some people can be kind of Serial
offenders in this regard right with
divorce um it's also you know there's a
massive skew with uh class and education
so only about 10% of graduates who get
married will get
divorced interesting yeah and that's it
is interesting isn't it and it does
suggest that to some extent marriage is
becoming a luxury good and and there's
this there's this phenomenon right where
a lot of people who are from those kind
of elite graduate classes will um
they'll talk the 1960s but walk the
1950s so they'll Proclaim all the stuff
about freedom and individual choice and
whatever but actually they live pretty
conventional lives they tend to get
married they tend to stay married they
tend to have 2.5 children Etc and be
very um actually be very conservative in
their own choices even if they don't
necessarily promote those choices so so
you know there's that and and actually I
think I think it's probably
because people
know that there are massive benefits to
their children from staying together
there are of course some instances
particularly with abuse when it's better
for the children If the parents break up
that's absolutely true but I think when
you're talking about kind
of vague unhappiness dissatisfaction
like we've outgrown each other like that
of uh unhappy marriage I think it's much
better for the children to stay together
and one big reason for that is because
the presence of
stepparents on average isn't good news
for children how do you know that
there's this thing called the Cinderella
effect in evolutionary psychology where
children who have a stepparent in the
home are aund times more at risk of
child abuse than children who don't have
a step parent in the home hundred times
I know and obviously I you have to be
careful I'm not I'm obviously not saying
that all stepar parents are abusive by
any means we're just talking about risk
yeah but it does go up by a lot and what
was I mean when this was discovered um
it was taken as proof of the fact that
parents having a genetic investment in
their children is one of the re I mean
like children are very um trying okay
they wake you up they have Tantrums
whatever if you have a genetic
investment in them it carries you
through those moments you're like I love
you I want the best for you you know you
can sort of get over it if you don't
have a genetic investment in those
children if in fact you potentially have
a conflict if say you have children with
the new partner and those children in
the household and you want those
children to sort of be favored and do
better unconsciously right but there
will be there will be kind of a playing
of favorites game it's not just in some
cases in some cases it's not just like
violent abuse it's things like step
parents are less likely to put a seat
Bel on their
stepchildren things like that it's like
it's like subtle but small ways in which
stepchildren are disfavored compared
with biological children and of course
some people will surmount that and be
amazing step parents disol adoptive
parents plenty of people will do a
wonderful job but it is a really
significant risk thing I had this woman
called Katie F on my podcast a little
while ago who um is a uh American
campaigner for children's rights and she
said try this okay Google my my my mom's
boyfriend and see what Google suggests
it's not
pretty you've Googled it haven't you
yeah what does it suggest it's things
like my mom's boyfriend touch me my
mom's boyfriend looks me weird my mom's
boyfriend makes me uncomfortable things
like that
is a step parent better than raising a
child without a second parent
though probably financially yeah in
terms of stability and having a role
model or something yeah potentially and
obviously some step parents can be
really good so it's difficult isn't it
but I think the thing that people I
think the thing that people should know
I think the reason why it's good to know
about the Cinderella effect is that if
you're it's quite easy as an adult to to
kid yourself and to be like I'm not very
happy with my partner my husband my wife
um you know sex's not as good as it used
to be we like he doesn't understand me
like that kind of level of
dissatisfaction um if only I was with
someone else everything would be so much
better I asked that in part because I
was just thinking as you're saying it
about adoption and implications is is it
adopted child being with a family better
than than being I think definitely but I
mean this is one of the reasons why
adopt adoption agencies are so careful
and screen so thoroughly and like the
criteria to be an adoptive parent are
really really stringent is because they
know that there is this issue I mean
particularly because also children who
are being adopted are more likely to
have their own uh issues and like to be
more difficult in some ways so I think
there's a recognition that this is a
this is a more difficult setup it's more
risky setup and so you have to be
careful the things you saying you know
that they're unpopular yes especially in
2024 yeah but you're saying them anyway
yeah why cuz I think it's true did you
care about the consequence of people
being annoyed about
it uh yeah although you know what since
this book since this book was published
two years ago
um I have had and I really did feel a
little bit when I was writing it like oh
no have I just completely like ruined my
life am I going to just constantly face
like um uh am I going to get constant
grief for this is it going to be a
complete disaster and actually I would
say that like 95% of the responses have
been incredibly positive and I get
emails and messages all the time from
people
saying thank you I've been thinking this
this whole time the feedback you've
gotten following the publication of your
book how is it surprised you and when I
ask that I'm asking in terms of like who
is sending you messages and what they're
saying
I would say probably the two most common
groups of readers are um dads okay who
are really worried about their daughters
in particular and also their sons and
saying like thank you so much for this
was the reason I decided to do a young
adult edition of the book so in um in a
few months there's going to be a young
adult version which is basically like
edited made shorter simpler whatever
because the book has a lot of very adult
themes obviously and um I had so many
people saying like I wish I could give
this to my
14-year-old and I just kind of feel
uncomfortable doing so but I really
really really want them to know this
stuff um and so we did a young out
audition for exactly that purpose and
often it is dads who are feeling moms
too but dads are are feeling really
anxious about this what what are they
worried about they're worried about well
they're worried about sexual violence to
their daughters is probably the key one
yeah but they're also worried about say
the impact of porn on their sons and
they're worried about the children being
miserable in various ways the other
group of readers I hear from are women
who have lived this and who have had
this exact process of thinking I can
have sex like a man thinking I can like
completely imitate the masculine
template and that's that's good for me
and have had this deep sense of
cognitive
dissonance which they've only belatedly
realized
was needless like it they didn't have to
actually put themselves through what
they did but they felt what they did you
know they they had this process of uh
conforming to something that was bad for
them I hear from a lot of those women um
and and you know in many cases like I
have had two women in me recently to say
that they uh are having a baby because
of me is that
amazing it's so cool just because they
because they had this because the anti
mother messaging can be so strong and
and feel so empowering yeah and this
feeling
that this painful feeling that actually
there's something much higher status
about the masculine template that
there's something lesser there's
something worse about
doing doing the feminine thing you know
being the mother I think is very baked
in and is actually very anti-woman I
think you know to say that to say that
being just a
mom there's something wrong with that
that it would be better to have say a
corporate job that it would be better
to live like a man I think that when
we I think that when we say things like
that what we're basically saying is that
what women do is worse that there's
something worse about
women something like actually very
deeply sexist about that in a way that I
don't like at all so a lot of what I try
to do in my writing and podcas and
everything is actually Elevate some of
the feminine
stuff which is
needlessly marginalized you know being a
mother it's okay to want to be
monogamous it's okay to want to have
children it's okay to care more about
your children than your career none of
those things are bad it's okay to care
more about your career than having
children yes you said that a little bit
more
reluctantly no it is that is okay I
think think that it is more common right
now in our current cultural moment for
women to be pushed towards the masculine
role when it doesn't suit them than the
other way around I think historically it
has been the other way around right the
women who wanted to do the masculine
thing and were really intelligent
ambitious and whatever were suppressed
and were and were basically confined to
the home right that definitely happened
historically I think we've kind of
flipped though actually and now it's
more common for women to be told that
being just a mom is worse
at a societal level there's been a big
decline in birth rates which is quite um
quite interesting are you concerned
about the decline in birth rates um I
mean I think it is definitely going to
cause significant political and economic
problems to read some stats by 2050 over
three quarters of countries won't have
high enough fertility rates to keep
their population size growing over time
um the global fertility or to keep it
stable over time the global fertility
rate has decreased from
4.84 live births per women in 1950 to
2.2 in 2021 and is expected to drop to
1.5 by 2
2,100 and the last one I'll read
is Japan's population was 124.32607
countries are taking drastic measures to
give to get their birth rates back up
South Korea for example is considering
giving families about 60,000 in cash for
each newborn baby that they
have so yeah there's a societal social
impact economic impact on the declining
birth rates and I've heard you say
previously that you think it's one of
the biggest evolutionary challenges
we're facing I think we're going through
an evolutionary
bottleneck so we're going through a
period where and it and it it's partly
the pill
the big the people um it's one of those
issues that sort of attracts Just So
Stories people will often be quite
confident about oh it's this oh it's
this you know oh it's feminism oh it's
capitalism whatever I think that the
single factor that actually best
explains why you're seeing such massive
drops in fertility
across um not just Europe and America
but Northeast Asia as you were saying
and also actually lots of like the
Middle East has quite low birth rates
Indian subcontinent has quite low birth
rates Ates basically the only place in
the world that still has high birth
rates is subsaharan Africa so this is
basically a global phenomenon um the the
single factor which best explains it is
affluence you cross a certain threshold
in terms of GDP per capita and fertility
Falls a lot and it's not that high a
threshold it's like $10,000 something
like that so the Richer you get the less
kids you have yeah I know it's funny
isn't it because it seems completely
counterintuitive because often people
will say in an expensive city like
London people will say I can't afford to
have
kids and they're sort of right I mean it
is true that it's harder to
afford it's it's harder than it was 50
years ago say to afford a family home
and to live on a single income so at the
kind of micro level that's true and that
probably does disincentivize people from
having children well certainly I mean
often what people mean is I can't afford
to have children at the standard that I
would like in terms of the size of my
house and you all of this whatever yeah
I mean we're all descended from people
who had 10 kids and a two-bedroom heart
you know like so our ancestors of all
had children in much more difficult
circumstances than we have and I think
that it's a really I mean it's a really
interesting mystery why does affluence
make people less inclined to have
children one factor probably is it's a
bit morbid but mortality salience when
people um this seems to be why there are
postwar baby booms it's not actually
because all the soldiers come home and
they're really horny right it's because
um War reminds people of death and
actually people have this tendency to
respond to death by wanting to create
new life and you can test this in the
lab like if you remind someone of if you
remind people of deaths and then ask
them how many children they want to have
they want to have more I know it's crazy
isn't it but it may be that there's
something about having very peaceful
and uh and and comfortable ways of life
affluent societies that actually
discourages people from reproducing
which it does seem C inot doesn't it but
that's a that's probably quite likely I
mean what's probably going to happen
therefore is that people who really want
to have kids will will be selected for
because
historically um Mother Nature didn't
really care how breedy you were she just
cared how horny you were right because
if you had sex then children were a
likely result whereas now with reliable
contraception that less a lot less true
so probably right now
um I mean we we're going to see really
massive drops in population in somewhere
like South Korea they have the lowest
birth rates in the world I think it's
like 0.7 or something so that's 0.7
babies per couple or person per woman is
how it's calculated so in order to have
replacement you'd need 2.1 in a culture
of low child mortality okay um and that
means that in South Korea they're
probably going to lose about 95% of
their population in The Next Century
what is going on in South Korea why do
no one have it's a really good question
it's a really good question they seem to
just have like all the problems that we
have but more okay it's like hyper
version of all the Western issues with
dating and with like they're also very
urbanized and like they're they're like
hyper modern in a lot of ways and given
that modernity seems to lead to low
fertility they're like further along
that track than we are we we touched on
it briefly the idea that porn might be
playing a role in people having less sex
um I read an interesting study from 2014
from Jammer Psychiatry Journal where
they looked at 64 adult men who watched
hours of porn each week and found that
there was a decrease in the amount of
gray matter in the area of their brain
that's associated with sexual
stimulation right the percentage of
women who consume porn is increasing and
by the end of 2019 almost three out of
every 10 pornh Hub users were female the
role that porn is playing in all of this
and what's your view on pornography good
thing bad thing uh net negative thing
net negative yeah yeah I mean um there
are various objections you can have
right I mean it's very much not a fair
trade product I think everyone knows
that really like deep down right it's
the the the the industry is really
horrible and it has a tendency to take
people who are already vulnerable and
completely destroy them very high
suicide rates among porn performers very
high drug dependency ratios rates things
like that so yeah you're not consuming
something that has been ethically
produced and even when some porn claims
to be ethically
produced it's often
like those claims are often actually
very shoddy and there's a lot of like it
is prostitution it's prostitution with
the camera in the room so it has the
same issues as the sex industry Tes in
general in terms of um coercion and
misery basically so there's that but in
terms of the effect on people who use it
yeah I mean it does seem to have this uh
death grip syndrome death grip syndrome
so death grip syndrome to be um to be
delicate about it is basically when a
man masturbates so much that it like
decreases his
sensitivity and it makes it hard for him
to then have proper sex how do they know
this is that it's like
APR they've not done like science on it
no I think it really emerged on Reddit
um and anecdotally if you stop using
porp syndrome tends to alleviate so like
you familiar with noap which is like a
movement to not not masturbate or yeah
and there's various an I don't know if
there's been proper studies but there's
there's anecdotal evidence that um
stopping using porn reduces erectile
dysfunction and improves Sexual Health
in various ways right um I think there's
also I coin this term cultural death
group syndrome where I think you end up
with
um when sexual stimuli are so
everpresent and it's so easy to
access like anything you can imagine at
the click of a button with the phone in
your pocket there's like this is like
hyper abundance of sexual stimuli um I
think it affects people psychologically
and I think it I think it actually
reduces people's drive to form
relationships because it's like sex
loses a Mystique 100% yeah 100% I'm
thinking about a lot of um scenarios in
my own life where I was many many years
ago when I was was single I was set to
go on a date with somebody but then I
might have masturbated and my desire to
go on the date just evaporates yeah and
I know a lot of people can relate so if
you're pretending you're somewhat
different you're bullshitting but but I
can I mean me and my friends always used
to talk about it that you could be like
making plans with somebody and then you
m debate and your desire as a man can
often just like that yeah in a way that
I don't think a lot of people understand
I think it's Al going back to this
premarital sex thing as well I think it
also applies to other areas of life we
call it postn Clarity that was the name
I was looking for yeah if you if you
live in a society where you can't have
sex unless you're married or you can't
have like sex legitimately you might be
able to have sex to prostitute or
something but basically your sexual
options are massively restricted
until you you get married and in order
to get married you have to have a job
you have to like not commit crime you
have to have a house you have to do all
these grown-up
things you are going to be so motivated
to do those things that is so motivating
and I think one of the problems that
that does come with allowing premarital
sex and allowing porn and basically like
not inducing any kind of Drive in young
men is that they less motivated to do
those things they're like why would I
you know why would I work harder why
would I why would I prioritize any of
these things when I've got pornhub or
soon enough sex
robots
right it kind of kills that
natural um it kills that natural drive
it kills that natural motivating force
which um is very very compelling for
young men you think reproduction is at
the very heart of men
motivation
well I mean
yeah sex is yeah for most event outliers
other so if we solve for that problem
using technology then one would then
deduce from that that we conclude from
that that we then will take away human
male motivation to like climb and build
and be strong and yeah you know I think
so and I mean there might be some
upsides in terms of um one of the aru
arguments that people use in favor of
porn is that it reduces sexual violence
MH now I don't really know if that's
true it's very hard to measure um and
I'm I'm skeptical about it because I
think that it uh something like choking
is now so so much more common among
young people um like the proportion of I
can't remember off top of my head but
the proportion of young women who say
they've ever been choked in beds is so
much higher than the proportion of older
women it just go up it's from your
charity right the charity you're
involved in cons this yeah estimated
that 2 million UK women have experienced
unwanted choking by strangling during
sex 3.5 million experiencing these and
also slapping and spitting and gagging
right that was unwanted and this has all
been very normalized by porn so I think
that the most likely explanation for why
this is more of a phenomenon among
younger Generations is because of porn
is because it's become sort of part of
the normal sexual script through porn a
10-fold increase in rough sex between 19
6 and
2016 right and I think that and the
reason that the reason that we con cons
sense this exists is because it it was I
mean we've we've we successfully changed
the law on this so hopefully this is
happening much less often than it was in
the UK but it is a global phenomenon as
well where men will kill their
girlfriends or their wives and claim
that she died as a result of consensual
rough sex when actually we think it's
much much more likely that she died as a
result of domestic violence deliberate
murder
yeah or or get convicted of man's lation
instead of murder and things like that
um so this is you know that's like a
specific that's like the extreme end of
this phenomenon um the other end of this
phenomenon is more like just the sexual
script becoming more violent and
becoming more aggressive and yeah and a
lot of young women in particular having
like absolutely terrifying to be choked
out of nowhere by some man you actually
don't know very well right that's a
really distressing experience there are
also what people always say to this is
there also women who ask for it and
there are also women who who like
choking I think what's going on there is
partly the mtic thing it's partly like
this is cool and this is what everyone's
doing so I want to do it too so that's
part of it I think to some extent one
difference between male and female
sexuality is that women like to be
dominated more than men do and that's
not necessarily a bad thing as long as
it's done in like a safe way and in a
trusting relationship it is a problem
though when that's translated into like
seeking out risky sex acts with someone
who you basically don't know I think men
know that porn is letting them down yeah
you know I say men I know that there's a
significant proportion of women that
listen watch porn as well but I have
come to learn from doing this podcast
and having conversations about dating
apps and pornography when I look at the
comment section men are very angry it
seems or at least the men that are in my
YouTube comments that are on YouTube at
dating apps and they're very very angry
and think the industry of porn again
this is the subset of people in my
comments they hate it they think it's
evil they think it's disgusting and I
actually looked at Google search data
before our conversation today to see
what people are searching and one of the
most frequently searched terms as it
relates to the subject of porn on a tool
we used to analyze Google search data
was how do I stop watching porn yeah and
it almost seems like you think you know
that that was one of the most frequently
searched terms that people are going to
Google and saying how do I stop this
yeah there's a certain lack of control
in a certain it's really addictive
Insidious yeah yeah yeah it's really
really addictive so you should we ban it
if you were prime minister of the UK
would you ban porn you could press a
button now ban
it
yeah there we go because I don't think I
mean I just the down the only downside
of banning it is basically the um it's
sort of like during Co when people were
banned from doing things which everyone
was doing right banned from socializing
banned from seeing their families and
people in a lot of cases kept doing it
and just broke the law and I think that
that had a sort of destructive effect on
attitudes towards the law this also was
one of the reasoning this is one one
piece of reasoning behind um legalizing
gambling back in the mid- 20th century
that there was statistics showing that
like an enormous number of people were
gambling and so it just seemed
ridiculous to ban something that
everyone was doing so that's one
argument against Banning porn that like
people would keep doing it it would be
quite hard really with the internet like
realistically um and so it would sort of
undermine faith in the legal system in
general and I take that
seriously but I don't think it makes
anyone's life
better sex workers would have a big uh
rebuttal to you there and say you know
it's a much better career for me than
working some horrible job in some there
might be a small small number of women
for whom that's really true but in
general I think and this applies to
other areas of sex industry not just
porn um the people you tend to hear from
are the people who are doing best by it
and you also tend to hear from them at
the point in their lives when um they're
in the middle of it and they are either
haven't yet suffered the cost of it or
are kind of have a self-protective
narrative that they're themselves and
I've spoken to a lot of women who've
been in the sex industry including on my
podcast who will talk about this exact
feeling of like when you're in it it's
you just need to get through the day and
telling yourself I'm empowered and this
this is okay and I'm in charge of this
and whatever is a way of getting through
the day is quite common for them to
compare it to being an abusive
relationship when when you're in it like
I love him it's fine you know and then
it's only afterwards you've after you've
left relationship and the emotional
connection is gone that you can realize
how bad it was for you and there are
some quite high-profile examples of this
like Jenna Jameson she was one of the
most famous porn stars in the world in
the 90s she's now a campaigner against
porn industry because she says it's just
so it's so exploitative it causes so
much psychological harm and physical
harm I mean just things like STDs and
injuries during you're 18 times more
likely to be murdered um if you're a
female porn
according to a study by Stuart
Cunningham at Hell 2018 yeah and that
and that danger is even more acute in
other areas of the sex industry
um there might be some people who really
don't suffer those psychological effects
and who find a way of doing it in the
sort of safest possible way and it's
okay for them I I try like I've spoken
to these people I trust that they exist
but I think they're very
unrepresentative and to say that we
should basically design the law around
those exceptions rather than around what
would be better for the the people who
are suffering most I think is
wrongheaded I mean in terms of the sex
industry in general I would favor what
um the law as it is in places like
Ireland and Sweden and France and quite
a lot of other countries where basically
buying sex is against the law but
selling sex isn't against the law which
I know seems kind of counterintuitive
but basically you say that the the
punters are criminalized I'm talking
about like on Street sex work and
brothels and stuff the punters are
criminalized but the prostituted women
are not so they don't have anything to
fear from the police and they can get
support from social services and they
can get help with addiction and they can
get you know all the all the various
issues that are so much more likely to
they're so much more likely to confront
but the punters are disincentivized from
because it's all fueled by Demand right
if there
weren't if there weren't men who wanted
to buy sex if weren't men watching porn
and women too if there weren't people
watching
porn the industry would collapse like
it's all depends on demand this young
generation are going to grow up with
pornography on their phones since birth
yeah you know what I mean like your your
kids are going to be able to access
pornography sometimes accidentally if
you scroll Twitter I know it's
terrifying um from the minute while
their brains are forming yeah and that's
the first real generation that have had
pornography from birth yeah yeah it's
really bad I mean this is why
smartphones it's why I worry about
smartphones I mean there are other
reasons there are other problems with
smartphones like in terms of things like
bullying through social media whatever
but the porn one is really bad it's very
addictive it it really damages your real
world
relationships it affects your sexual
taste as well like it's you're more
likely to it's not like porn invents
these things like there something like
the choking phenomenon it hasn't like
invented out of thin air it's it's
feeding on um an existing dynamic where
women tend to want to be dominated and
men tend to want to dominate but it
exaggerates it and it like it turns
neurop Pathways into in your brain into
most ways you know because you're
constantly reinforcing this stim this
positive response to the stimulus with
orgasm which is like a very like you're
training your brain basically on that
point of choking the other thing that um
pornography does is it kind of resets
your expectations of people's bodies and
how people should look how they should
perform in bed etc and the way sex
should be but how they should look and
obviously there's been this huge rise in
plastic surgery driven by social media
but also probably by pornography and
expectations of how the body should look
yeah which seems to be playing into all
of this yeah and seems to be yeah bad
for self-esteem bad for your sort of
realistic sense of it's it's that funny
phenomenon isn't it where um what looks
good in 2D doesn't necessarily look good
in 3D you ever noticed how sometimes
women who have had a lot of work done
will look really good in photos and then
look a bit weird in person like uncanny
valley in person CU actually in 3D it
looks a bit odd yeah yeah yeah of course
so it's like the wrong motivations as
well on that subject of Attraction
though there were the the conversation
around attraction itself is quite
confused because again there's sort of a
political correctness around what you
can and can't say about attraction what
men are attracted to and what women are
attracted to I think we can agree from
an evolutionary perspective is different
and what is
that what are we not
saying
um I mean there's lots of really
interesting little data points about
that like perfect waste hip ratio that
men like is
.77 which is just for anybody that
doesn't know that they want the waste
the the waste to be S it's so it's the
waste measurement divided by the hit
measurement should be 0.7 I think that's
right um and uh like men having like
upper body strength just
straightforwardly like basically the
more the better there is this
interesting thing with women
where two masculine is offputting oh
interesting women want like eight or
nine out of 10 right masculinity yeah
but they don't want bodybuilder exactly
they don't want too much or like the
super super Square Jord like intense
look um and the reason for that is an
interesting one it seems to be because
um
women have this balance in choosing a
partner where you want someone who's
strong and will protect you and will uh
provide for you and you know like and
and being masculine is an indication of
that which is good but you don't want
someone who's so Macho that he has like
out of control aggression and might hurt
you okay so the 10 out of 10 is a bit
risky you want your eight or nine out of
10 like that's The Sweet Spot Nick I
guess so radar or scary okay yeah yeah I
don't think that men have that in
Reverse as far as I can tell the more
feminine the better like men just really
like you know all the signs about adult
adult Dem fertility are attractive you
said that women like upper body strength
yeah didn't say lower body strength is
this why men don't do leg day I mean
that's the point where there's the most
Divergence between the Sexes like lower
body strength um between the Sexes is
you no I I I at the moment obviously but
I normally do powerlifting and um the
difference between squat for men and
women is much less than the difference
between bench MH um so it may be that uh
everyone's trying to like exaggerate the
dimorphism I think that that I mean and
it's also an interesting point around
the way our society is less um is less
polarized like we we we do the same jobs
we um men and women are friends with
each other like there are lotss of ways
in which we are much more sexually
egalitarian and like mix more with the
opposite sex than did our grandparents
say um and I think to some extent people
actually really
crave polarity they actually crave
sexual difference um maybe more than
what they that's one Theory as well as
to why BDSM is popular the people are
like really drawn towards like hyper
matro hyper feminine behaviors if sex is
hierarchical in the sense that if I'm a
high status strong male I'm going to
attract more mates isn't it sort of
innate then that there's always going to
be this um group of men at the bottom of
that Spectrum who are sexless yeah and
that are struggling because there is a
lot of men that are really really
struggling at the moment and the
suicidality amongst that group of men is
shocking yeah the incel community the
you know the purposelessness the
addiction the gambling addiction is
really almost exclusive amongst men yeah
in that
regard yeah maybe Mother Nature is a Mis
andjust as well that I think there is
it's one of the reasons why talking
about things like attractiveness is um
not very I don't know if politically
correct is correctly where it were but
is a bit like awkward and painful
because it is quite hard not to just say
look there kind of is a hierarchy like
there is an extent to which some people
are more attractive than others and um
and lookism actually is like a massive
form of social inquality that no one
ever talks about lookism so people who
are better looking basically do better
in every way people are nicer to them
they do better in their careers there
was this study of um tipping during Co
because during Co um people working in
restaurants they had to wear masks and
so to some extent it hid people's faces
and
um normally better looking waiters get
more tips and waitresses and then during
Co that was to some equalized I know
it's kind of horrible I know I know but
it's like and and that's why I think we
don't really talk about it I mean people
clearly know this because they work so
hard to be good-look think of the size
of the beauty industry and like gym
culture and whatever like people are
desperate to be better looking so we
kind of know this is important but it
seems a bit um I don't know bit horrible
to talk about it mother nature is unfair
yeah and there's trade-offs that go both
ways yeah you know I'm not you know in
Kash is gorgeous but if I was a woman I
wouldn't necessarily want to be Kim
Kardashian because there are trade-offs
that I wouldn't I wouldn't be happy with
um and I think that's much of what this
conversation has really been it's just
highlighting some of those disparities
and unfairnesses but also the the
trade-offs and the opportunities that
mother nature presents us with in all
facets of our
lives and these are difficult
conversations for all of the reasons you
described they're difficult they're
painful but um I think it's better to
know I think it's better to know
I think that you can make an informed
choice if you
know right I agree yeah a lot of people
don't want to know and you learn that as
a podcaster yeah you learn that there's
a lot of things that some people it's
fingers in the ear it's it causes too
much dissonance and pain and uncomfort
to look in the mirror at the nature of
the way that the world is or is going to
be so some people would rather avoid it
and you know what fine yeah that that's
they've they're coping yeah cope is a
very powerful we're all trying to find
ways to cope like we all are so I have
empathy for that thank you so much thank
you so much for being uh willing to have
the uncomfortable conversation and
willing to say the uncomfortable thing
out loud because a lot of people aren't
willing to say that and you know I think
that's how progress happens I think
ideas that are opposing sometimes need
to um Collide for us to make progress
and I think your your book is very much
a case of that if anybody hasn't read it
I I I think it's one of the most
important books on the subject it's
called the case against the sexual
Revolution a new Guide to Sex in the
21st century um highly highly recommend
it everyone that I know that's read it
has absolutely raved about it and passed
it around so I'm sure you will do too so
I I'll link it below in the description
so you guys can all read the book I have
a closing tradition on this podcast
where the last guest leaves a question
for the next guest not knowing who
they're leaving it for and the question
that's been left for you
is what a question when was the last
time you lied to
yourself this morning
I think we do it constantly I mean on
the cope thing like I think
actually too much truth is probably a
little bit too much to bear right yeah
all at once yeah we have to lie to get
through life I think yeah little white
lies that help us cope with the day
which is kind of related to what we were
just saying yeah thank you so much
really really appreciate it and um um
congratulations on the small boy on the
way and everything goes well and I'll
see you again soon in the future I'm
sure to continue this conversation so
thank you Louise thank you thank you so
much
[Music]